Announcement
************

The GNUstep Makefile Package version 1.11.2 is now available.

What is the GNUstep makefile package?
=====================================

The makefile package is a simple, powerful and extensible way to write
makefiles for a GNUstep-based project.  It allows the user to write a
project without having to deal with the complex issues associated with
configuration, building, installation, and packaging.  It also allows
the user to easily create cross-compiled binaries.

Changes in version `1.11.2'
===========================

The `GNUstep.conf' file is now viewed as the essential determination of
the install location for GNUstep libraries, tools and other files.
During configuration, this file is read, if it exists, to determine
this information. This can still be overriden with environment and
command line options, however. See the filesystem documentation in the
GNUstep Make Documentation directory for more information.

   You no longer need to source GNUstep.sh in order to compile GNUstep
programs. All that is needed is the definition of GNUSTEP_MAKEFILES.
You should also have the GNUstep system tools directory in your path.

   All netbsd systems are assumed to use ELF libraries. Support for the
old static libs version of netbsd was removed.

   Serveral new options were added to configure to change the location
of basic dir locations and basic configuration files. Also, the help was
greatly improved. Note that -prefix=/usr/GNUstep/System no longer
works.  Please use -prefix=/usr/GNUstep or
-with-system-root=/usr/GNUstep/System.

   A few more fixes for cygwin are included as well as Windows resource
rules.

   Support for ObjC++ has been added. You should list the ObjC++ .mm
files in the xxx_OBJCC_FILES variable, and put extra ObjC++ flags in
xxx_OBJCCFLAGS or ADDITIONAL_OBJCCFLAGS.

Obtaining gnustep-make
======================

You can get the gstep-make-1.11.2.tar.gz distribution file at
<ftp://ftp.gnustep.org/pub/gnustep/core>

   Please log bug reports on the GNUstep project page
<http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=gnustep> or send bug reports to
<bug-gnustep@gnu.org>.

