1 Announcement
**************

The GNUstep Makefile Package version 2.0.0 is now available.

1.1 What is the GNUstep makefile package?
=========================================

The makefile package is a simple, powerful and extensible way to write
makefiles for a GNUstep-based project.  It allows the user to write a
project without having to deal with the complex issues associated with
configuration, building, installation, and packaging.  It also allows
the user to easily create cross-compiled binaries.

1.2 Changes in version `2.0.0'
==============================

The Makefile package has had a major makover which befits a major
version update.  The most user-visible change of this is customized
filesystem support.  GNUstep can now be configured and installed using
any of many typical filesystem layouts, including FHS, Mac, and the
traditional GNUstep layout.

   Due to this change a number of variable names have been changed or
deprecated. If you are a developer maintaining makefiles, you should
check your makefiles for these variables. Most notibly, variabels such
as `GNUSTEP_SYSTEM_ROOT' no longer make any sense, as various
directories that were previously in a traditional GNUstep system root
directory exist accross multiple directories in disparate places in
other filesystem layouts.

   If you are a user or developer that is just installing GNUstep, read
the `GNUstep-HOWTO' and `INSTALL' documents to find out new information
about configuring and installing make.

   If you are a developer, read the files `filesystem' and `make' for
information on new and changed variables. Read the `releasenotes' file
for specific changes in this release and updates you will need to make
to work with this version of make.

   Various changes include:
   * New configure option `--with-layout' to choose different
     filesystem layouts.

   * All applications use the `.app' extension even when compiled with
     debugging or profiling.

   * Precompiled header support added using
     xxx_OBJC_PRECOMPILED_HEADERS.

   * gnustep-config is a program which prints out information on the
     GNUstep filesystem and variables (Similar to programs like
     pkg-config).

   * Applications can be started now just using their name (by
     installing a wrapper in the tools directory).

   * Versioning of Microsoft Windows DLLs implemented.

   * Use of `GNUSTEP_SYSTEM_ROOT' and similar variables deprecated. Use
     instead `GNUSTEP_INSTALLATION_DOMAIN' and `SYSTEM' or `LOCAL'

   * Implement use of GNU standard `DESTDIR' variable.

   * Object files are now placed in the `obj' directory.

   * Static and profile libraries have the same name as normal
     libraries.

1.3 Obtaining gnustep-make
==========================

You can get the gstep-make-2.0.0.tar.gz distribution file at
`ftp://ftp.gnustep.org/pub/gnustep/core'

   Please log bug reports on the GNUstep project page
`http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=gnustep' or send bug reports to
<bug-gnustep@gnu.org>.

